Today's post provides some early-life backgrounds for your character, the Feral, Orphan, House(Whaler), and House(Burgher) Upbringings. Each of these presents a loose overview of the background you spent your formative years in, and not a straighjacket: the background mostly reflects the environment your character grew up in, what kind of opportunities and resources you had access to, and your default standing in that society.

Your character chooses any one Upbringing background (just as you choose only one Birth background), gaining all the benefits associated with it. Upbringings usually provide a wide variety of skills you can choose to gain, and can serve as prerequisites for certain later-life backgrounds.
<h2 style="text-align: left;"><strong>Feral</strong></h2>
You grew up alone amongst the mazes, avenues, and towers of the inner city. For one reason or another, you never integrated into a local village choosing instead to fend for yourself in the stony wild. This youth could have left you ferocious and untrustful, or perhaps instead simply shy and introspective. Regardless, you did not grow up within society, and thus prioritized survival skills.

Things you might want to think about if you came from this background include: how did you survive? Why didn't you end up joining a village? What was the scariest thing that happened to you when you were alone? How did you feel when you wandered the ruins?

If your Upbringing was Feral, you may gain Training in 4 of the following skills, and you may begin play with a basic weapon of your choice (up to value 100, non-relic).

Skills: Clambering over obstacles, Quickly hiding in cover, Navigating mazeways, Surviving falls from heights, Finding a safe place to rest, Noticing signs of a guarded area, Fighting small Golems, Balancing on beams, Disarming a trap, Reacting suddenly to danger, Guessing which way to go in tunnel complexes, Intimidating commoners, Ambushing a guard, Foraging/Hunting for food
<h2>Orphan</h2>
You grew up within a community, but your parents are either unknown or dead and no local House has formally adopted you. You may have grown up with an adoptive caretaker, a caring village, or living on the streets as a young urchin. In any event, you were reliant on unrelated people for your wellbeing and learned to adapt to the sometimes callous treatment of your peers. Because of the lack of House, your access to formal education was limited, but that simply freed you to interact with working adults and travellers.

Things you might want to think about if you came from this background include: how did the village treat you? Do you know the fate of your parents? Were you well-mannered, or more of a scamp? Where did you sleep? Who was your best friend?

If your Upbringing was as an Orphan, you may gain Training in 4 of the following skills, and you may begin play with 100 gold and a Contact in the village of your choice.

Skills: Focusing on a task amidst distraction, Pilfering an item from someone, Persuading a reluctant individual, Fighting off bullies or drunks, Reading &amp; Writing your language, Haggling and appraising an item's price, Recognizing or Formulating a lie, Eavesdropping, Sneaking around, Entertaining others &amp; Making friends, Crafting a particular mundane material (leather, thread, bone, etc), Reacting to sudden danger, Acrobatic running, Avoiding unwanted attention
<h2>House (Burghers)</h2>
You grew up as a member of a House, a social organization amongst the Sakire that bind together particular sets of families into a greater whole. Members within a house are treated as closely as biological family, along with all the benefits and obligations that entails. Your House is occupied by people of several different professions and talents, with most being clerks, salesmen, artisans, and craftsmen. Growing up in this environment, you had access to formal early education, giving way to some variety of apprenticeship when you were a bit older. You spent most of your days within a complex claimed by your house (a large villa, a tower, or some other retrofitted city structure) and passed the time bugging elders and cousins.

Things you might want to think about if you came from this background include: What activities did you feel drawn to? Were you a loner, or were you gregarious as a young one? Who tutored you? Did you prefer the familiar nature of the household, or the busy streets of the city more? How comfortable do you feel around your House members? Other Houses? Was your House isolationist, or involved daily with other Houses? What were the main dealings of your House?

If your Upbringing was a member of a standard House, you may gain Training in 4 of the following skills, and you may begin play with 50 gold and a House affiliation.

Skills: Reading &amp; Writing, History, Playing a particular instrument of your choice, Crafting a particular mundane material (leather, thread, bone, etc), Lying, Baking &amp; Cooking pastries and meats, Dancing, Singing, Persuading a reluctant individual, Climbing, Mathematics, Talking to officials, Focusing on a task amidst distraction, Making friends
<h2>House (Whalers)</h2>
You grew up as a member of a whaling House, a social organization binding several whaling families together into a single whole. Jezevel's waters are icy, but warm compared to the sea beyond the horizon, and thus flocks with large ocean mammals and fish. Members within a whaling House are dedicated to working together to bring in the bounty of the sea for sustenance and profit. Your House encourages friendly competition amongst its fishing crews, and provides a framework for negotiating disputes when they arise. You were very likely involved in their onshore operations at a young age, helping process fish and meat then helping their sale at market. Regardless of the path you choose when you grow older, you will always have free borrowed access to an unused whaling boat for whatever purposes you need, gratis.

Things you might want to ponder if you are a member of a whaling House include: Did you enjoy going out on the sea, or did you prefer the market atmosphere thereafter? Were your House members loud and energetic, or perhaps instead serious and taciturn? What was the biggest animal you ever caught? Do you have anyone in your House that holds a grudge against you, like a rival fishing crew? What has the most dangerous situation you ever found yourself in? Was it at sea or on shore? Do you still want to be associated with the whaling lifestyle?

If your Upbringing was a member of a whaling House, you may gain Training in 4 of the following skills, and you may begin play with a 20 gold, a skiff (with standard tackle, including 4 harpoons) and a House affiliation.

Skills: Reading &amp; Writing, Haggling over the price of an item, Navigating at Sea, Sailing a boat, Fighting with polearms and spears, Preparing/Curing/Smoking meat, Lifting heavy objects, Crafting leather and bone, Balancing, Swimming, Identifying a beast and its instinctual behaviour, Singing, Creating a good atmosphere at a party or gathering, Reacting to sudden danger
