Today, I've written up a Birth background available at character creation: the Imrais!

Rarely, children are born in Jezevel that never utter a noise: neither while being born or any time after. Sounds around them dull, electric lights dim, and devices are jinxed or rendered inoperative. Psykers feel searing pain and a profound blindness around such children, and even an ordinary person feels a discomfort and unease. Such a child is called an Imrais, and has been gifted and cursed with a powerful aura that assails the magical and the technological.

You choose whether or not your character is an Imrais when you choose your Birth: one is either born with this alien aura or not, it cannot be learned. If you choose to be an Imrais, your character is born Mute: you are entirely unable to make any vocal or linguistic noises. You are capable of language, but may only read, write, and hear it. To reiterate, you are unable to yell, whisper, breath loudly, make a burping sound or any other sound that involves your respiratory tract. Imrais generally rely on facial expressions, small bells, handwriting, and sign language to communicate.

As an Imrais you gain the special "Imrais" attribute: this represents the jinxing and anti-magic aura you possess. You use your Imrais attribute whenever you seek to overcome an obstacle by undermining magic or technology. All Psyker characters can feel your presence from 100 meters away, and suffer a penalty to any rolls they make using their Psyker attribute equal to your Imrais attribute while within 50 meters. In the event a Psyker is affected by multiple Imrais, only the penalty of the strongest Imrais is applied. Mechanical and electrical devices within 25 meters of you are considered Jinxed: they become extremely prone to randomly powering off, which can be both a bane and a boon depending on your situation.

Imrais have a natural talent that is incredibly useful in hunting down rogue psykers and defending communities from Curators. Imrais are very rare individuals (roughly 1 in every 10,000 children is born an Imrais), and usually find themselves drafted into the military or bodyguard positions. Other than their aura, surreal silence, and oppressive presence they are not physically distinguishable from any other normal Citizen.

Imrais is an excellent choice if you want to be a literal headache for Psyker characters, a silent enigma, or a person with a troubled relationship with the ancient technology of Jezevel.
