The great city of Jezevel is an enormous vision of bone and gypsum, a sprawling, towering landscape of termite mound skyscrapers and alleyway warrens. Burying a peninsula the size of Denmark, stopped only by the the icy wastes to the north and the arctic ocean on all other sides, Jezevel is a surreal ruin on the face of a barren, snow-covered planet. The logic of the city is chaotic, like some architect's bizarre nightmare: white bridges crisscrossing each other, avenues terminating in dead-ends nonetheless girded along their length by impressive archways, mazeways giving way to plazas overlooked by the vertiginous height of the city spires. The walls are smooth like bone, the ground a fine alabaster, and the only thing stranger than its form is that the city is almost entirely empty.

There is no evidence of a cataclysm, and it could well be that the intended inhabitants never arrived: perhaps the city simply grew out of the ground on an impulse. Nonetheless, there are a few denizens. Near the waterways and particularly near the shore are the Sakire, a race of people who did not build this city, but do call it home. The landscape is absent of anything but the most meagre parcel of arable land, usually in the form of some embryonic park planted in the midst of the city, and as a result the Sakire make their living off of fishing and whaling out on the cold ocean. The Sakire wear the furs of seals, burn whale fat candles where the ancient city fixtures do not provide light, and wander around the ancient city when they feel more adventurous. It is about these Sakire who poke into the dangerous interior of the city that this setting is primarily about.

Jezevel, as one leaves the lower places by the shores, rapidly rises up in a set of alabaster terraces. These terraces in turn are riddled with skybridges and half-formed apartment complexes and cathedral-like structures. As these edifices pile upon each other, they rise into spires and ridges that dominate the landscape. This landscape is not, however, a museum to meander through: it is riddled with Sakire outcasts and (more threateningly) the mysterious Golems. These constructs, made more of stone than flesh, wander the corridors of the interior on seemingly random errands: mending a wall, righting an antenna mast, or demolishing a building with their fists. A bestiary of golem types can fall upon the feckless adventurer, with nearly all of them united in a conspiracy to repel Sakire who would intrude. Although old remnant technologies and secrets remain for the taking, few survive the attempt.

Jezevel is a remnant itself of an advanced and wholly forgotten race of forebears, and only primitives and forsaken robotic golems remain as witnesses to its existence. Regardless of the originating forces of this place, for the Sakire it is simply a home, a milieu within which their personal dramas and histories can unfold, and a looming artifact to be explored.
