[size=150]Relative Comfort[/size]
Well, I really hadn't meant to get into it so soon, but I suppose it is unavoidable: subordinate/dependent clauses. They are easily my favorite thing in syntax to tweak with: there are strategies based off of gaps, relativizing particles & pronouns, passivization schemes, and all of the previous multiplied together. Further, all this leaves aside the fun that appositive and adverbial clauses present! Today I will try to come up with a somewhat rich scheme for prototypical dependent clauses: clauses that serve the role of limiting the scope of possible referents for a verb's argument, such as "I hate the car _that I  bought_" or "I saw the man _who flew over my head_" or similar. 

The linguistic [url=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relative_clause#Accessibility_hierarchy]"Accessibility Hierarchy"[/url] is where I'll start off:
[quote="Wikipedia"]
...[T]here are major restrictions on the role the antecedent may have in the relative clause.
Edward L. Keenan and Bernard Comrie noted that these roles can be ranked cross-linguistically in the following order from most accessible to least accessible:

**Subject > Direct Object > Indirect Object > Oblique > Genitive > Object of comparative**

This order is referred to as the accessibility hierarchy. If a language can relativize positions lower in the accessibility hierarchy, it can always relativize positions higher up, but not vice versa. 

...[/quote]
This kind of thing is a great thing for conlanging: we can choose to break it if we're feeling sparky, or just choose our point on the scale. I'm going to choose the latter since there are sound human/intuitive reasons for the order. Another cool factoid is that those languages which cannot relativize stuff lower on the scale are precisely the languages whose passives pick up the semantic slack. With that in mind, because passives are fun too, let's choose somewhere middling on the scale so both can eventually get some spotlight:

Kjáhida allows relative constructions for antecedents in the **Subject**, **Direct Object**, and **Indirect Object** roles.
Kjáhida uses passive constructions for antecedents in the **Oblique**, **Genitive**, and **Comparatand(?)** roles.

Having said that, we still need to decide what exactly these constructions will consist of. I'm quite a fan of gap constructions ("The man (I saw) was fat"), so we certainly want those, but it's useful to have some kind of relativizing particle to deal with trickier scenarios: we'll define an indeclinable 'di' for the purpose. There are four scenarios I want to handle explicitly:

1)The antecedent is the 'first' argument of the matrix verb, and the 'first' argument of the subordinate verb.
2)The antecedent is the 'first' argument of the matrix verb, and **not** the 'first' argument of the subordinate verb.
3)The antecedent is **not** the 'first' argument of the matrix verb, and **is** the 'first' argument of the subordinate verb.
4)The antecedent is not the 'first' argument of either verb.

The main reason I want to be sure of those cases is because we have to concern ourselves about parsing the 'crumbly' bits of our verbs, so best to be methodical. For 'non-first' roles, we more precisely mean arguments entailed by a verb being semantically 'transitive' or 'ditransitive', since we said we only relativize Indirect Objects and above in the accessibility hierarchy. (Side-note: we need to address the 'optionality' of verbs' preposition-headed arguments soon).

For cases 1) and 3), I think we can very handily get away with a simple 'plop it in' strategy:

1)
**_sja sam sir rakási ja namam_**
_be go-toward(come) potato be yumminess_
The potato that came was yummy

3)
**_win Sakir ja sam sir rakási_**
_eat Sakir of go-toward(come) potato_
Sakir ate the potato that came

Parsing the construction is pretty natural, as the verb of the relativized clause shows up right after any 'prepositions' where a noun'd be expected, so it's clear what is going on. We may need to cook up some strategies for fronting non-relativized phrases to clear up some ambiguity that occurs with a 'heavy' subclause, but it's nothing English and others can't handle, so we can look to them for inspiration when we address that issue.

For cases 2) and 4), I feel more comfortable inserting a 'dummy pronoun' in the  subclause, and have the NP itself exit to the left of the verb:

2)
**_sam nit lir Sakir ja di sir tatíra_**
_go girl saw Sakir of REL towards dog _
The girl that Sakir saw went up to the dog

4)
**_dawi Sakir lek tímitim mal Táti min di_**
_throw Sakir away/from stick place Spot down REL_
Sakir threw out the stick that Spot had placed down

Further, to help our Kjáhida-speakers out a bit, we'll introduce a pragmatic shuffling rule: the '<preposition> di' segment should occur last in the subordinated clause as long as it doesn't introduce ambiguity of the meaning of those phrases it 'moves to the right of'. This is mostly important for ditransitive verbs with several arguments required:

**_sjin Sakir wi tímitim sir Táti_**
_give Sakir of stick to Spot_
Sakir gave the stick to Spot

goes to 

**_lir Ríta ja tímitim sjin Sakir sir Táti wi di_**
_saw Rita of stick give Sakir to Spot of REL_
Rita saw the stick that Sakir had given Spot

**NOT**

**_lir Ríta ja tímitim sjin Sakir wi di sir Táti_**
_saw Rita of stick give Sakir of REL to Spot_
Rita saw the stick Sakir gave (toward Spot?)

This rule will come in handy when we have longer, more involved sentences: the 'di' forms a natural kind of 'end parenthesis' in most cases. However, ambiguity can still exist if there are PP's and such in the subclause (the shuffling rightwards won't happen because it'll often seem like we're relativizing an oblique object), but context should normally sort out the right parsing.

--------------

Truth be told, I've been working on this post for two hours, so I'm going to end it there. I'm sure there are cases I've not looked at for our relative clauses, but I'm feeling good about it so far. Call me out on anything stupid/ambiguous if you see it, and I'll try and address it. If we catch anything egregious, my next post will be about addressing it, otherwise I'll likely think about the passive constructions next, leaving finer details for later. As always, thanks for reading this stuff: it's very much appreciated, even if you don't end up commenting.

**Constructions this post**
<NP <- Subclause NP, referent is subclause Agent> = <verb> REFERENT_NOUN <verb particles & their arguments...>
<NP <- Subclause NP, referent is not subclause Agent> = REFERENT_NOUN <verb> Main_Noun <verb particles & their arguments...> <now-lonely verb particle> 'di'