[size=150]Complementary Snacks[/size]
Still on the quest to use passive verbs to 'relativize' oblique and indirect objects of subclauses, today we will investigate complementizing a clause. 'Complementizing' is the process of turning an independent clause into an argument of another clause: this is distinct from relativizing in that we aren't providing extra information about one of the verb's actors, but instead treating the clause *as a whole* as an argument of the verb. Some examples include "I knew **that it was going to rain**", "**That he was stinking, filthy rich** came as a surprise to me", "**When he ran to the police** I grabbed the gat", and similar. The 'that' in the examples is acting as a complementizer particle, although I'm not certain about the status of the last example's "when": it is either a complementizer or simply a preposition/adverb-thing with an 'empty complementizer' phrase as its argument.

I want to point out real quick that I am not addressing 'interrogative content clauses', which are sentences of the form "I know **how you got all that money**", "She asked **where Jerome had stashed the bag**", and such. I want to get back to those later with a different mechanism, although today's mechanism applies just fine to 'declarative content clauses' like the "I knew **Sam was a good man**".

Really, I think this is going to boil down to whether we're going to have an explicit complementizer (like English 'that') heading up things, or not. So let's just look at how Kjáhida would look either way, using a tentative particle 'na' for the explicit case:

Example 1:
a)
**_lir Sakir ja [dawi Rita lek tímitim]_**
_saw Sakir of throw Rita away stick_
Sakir saw Rita throw the stick

b)
**_lir Sakir ja [na dawi Rita lek tímitim]_**
_saw Sakir of COMPL throw Rita away stick_
Sakir saw Rita throw the stick

Example 2:
a)
**_tamal [rak Rita líswa tatíra] nísam Sakir_**
_surprise possess Rita with dog against Sakir_
That Rita had a dog surprised Sakir

b)
**_tamal [na rak Rita líswa tatíra] nísam Sakir_**
_surprise COMPL possess Rita with dog against Sakir_
That Rita had a dog surprised Sakir

A secondary option for the explicit case presents itself to us if we allow the complement to front, leaving 'na' in its place:

Example 1:
c)
**_[dawi Rita lek tímitim] lir Sakir ja na_**
_throw Rita away stick saw Sakir of that_
Sakir saw Rita throw the stick

Example 2:
c)
**_[rak Rita líswa tatíra] tamal na nísam Sakir_**
_possess rita with dog surprise that against Sakir_
That Rita had a dog surprised Sakir

**_<...An Hour of Confused Syntactaesthetic Pondering Later...>_**

After a bit of thought, I think I'll do for complement clauses what we did for relative clauses: we'll use a pair of constructions based on the 'first argument' status of the subordinate clause. In this case, we will use the "front & use 'na'" when the complement is the 'first', and use the unmarked construction otherwise. Precisely, we like Example 1a and 2c. Although I think that'll be fine, this is likely the most 'iffy' on a decision I've felt so far: let me know if you think up a more 'Kjáhidan' approach to this.

-----------------

Daily postings are quite a task to achieve, but this one marks the first full week of such updates. Tomorrow will likely be about using our new Complement and Passive constructions together so that we can finish off our 'relativization' strategies for clause arguments. Once we do that, depending on my mood, we'll really try to break our subordinate clause system with some contorted utterances and see if anything needs changing, or we'll take a break and look at something unrelated. As always, thanks for reading!

**Constructions this Post**
Subject Complement Clause: <Complement clause> <matrix verb> 'na' <other arguments & phrases>
Non-Subject Complement Clause: <matrix verb> <subject argument> ... <Complement clause, unmarked> ...