[size=150]Honest To Goodness Prepositional Phrases[/size]

As I've been writing these posts and coming up with the grammar for Kjáhida, I feel I've ben focusing on the verb-like behaviour of the non-NP elements in our sample sentences. However, since the goal is to create a language based on Killer-P's, we need to make sure they are clearly acting as prepositions as well. Doing some research (thus no post yesterday), I came across a neat thing in Chinese that I think is going in the right direction.[quote="about.mandarin.com"]
The Mandarin Chinese particle zài - 在 has several functions. It is most commonly used to indicate location. When used before a place word, zài means “on” “at” or “in”.

Shū zài nàli. 
The book is there. 
书在那里｡

Zài is also used as a preposition to indicate where an action takes place:

Tāmen zài chúfáng chī dōngxī. 
They are in the kitchen eating.
他们在厨房吃东西｡

Another use for zài - 在 is to show that an action is occurring at the present moment. Zài is placed before the verb it modifies:

Tāmen zài kàn diànshì. 
They are watching TV. 
他们在看电视｡
[/quote]

This is also a lot, after I thought a bit, like English 'at/a-', such as in "I'm at the store" and "I'm a-running home!". This is the kind of multi-use I want Kjáhida Killer-P's to do regularly. So to start with, in today's post, we're gonna come up with some basic prepositional particles (including ones we've already used), and keep in mind alternate uses we can declare out-of-the-box. We're also gonna assign a heirarchy of semantics for determining which prepositional phrases are 'fronted', occurring closer to the verb.

**The Lineup**
This list is only for the meanings of these particles when they are not working with another Killer-P and as such are not complete definitions. They are presented in order of salience, and should be nearer to the verb in an 'unmarked' word order than those PPs below it.

**_Participant Particles: Highest Default Salience_**
ja - of, characterized by
wi - of, concerning/related to
sir - toward, with the natural endpoint being
lek - from, with the natural startpoint being
kja - for, to the interest/benefit/detriment of
liswá - with, accompanying

**_Locational/Environmental Particles: Medium Default Salience_**
kwa - moving over, past; to the detriment of
nar - moving under, beneath; with X in mind; to the benefit of
kjiri - above, atop
min - below, under
swiswi - with respect to, along; following with
nísam - against, upon; abutting, adjacent 

**_Temporal Particles: Lowest Default Salience_**
liswá - while, at the same time as X (yup, liswá is in both lists)
daji - before, with X haven't happened yet
sjak - after, with X having happened already
wa - along with, with X beginning at the time of the action
kin - parting from, with X ending at the time of the action

Fun to do, easy to do, useful to do: a winning combination! So how do we use them?

**The Prepositional Phrase**
Thinking over the question from last post and after some reading/research, it seems very natural for all verbs to have a set of semantic parameters that get filled in, and that it is usually the choice of the language which ones to make mandatory. With that in mind, I'm going to take a loose approach largely consisting of the maxim "If the verb used comes built-in with Killer-P's, they are required to show: if there are no arguments to take, they stay in front of the main argument". This means I decided to go along with the 'win ja' option last post.

What this means for us today is that any prepositions 'built into' the verb come first, followed by the heirarchy of prepositions we specified above, which are optional. Some examples:

**_win ja Sakir_**
_eat-of Sakir_
Sakir Eats

**_win Sakir ja rakási_**
_eat Sakir of potato_
Sakir ate a potato

**_win Sakir ja rakási liswá Rita_**
_eat Sakir of potato with/at-the-same-time-as Rita_
Sakir ate a potato with Rita

**_win Sakir wi rakási kin dawi Rita ja tímitim nar Táti_**
_eat Sakir TOPIC potato parting-from throw Rita of stick for Spot_
Sakir began eating a potato once Rita threw a stick for Spot (topic will shift to the eating of the potato: unpalatable? delicious?)

Whoa whoa whoa.... we just introduced a whole subclause ('kin dawi Rita...') with that last one: very controversial at this early stage! All sorts of English-isms could abound here, so I'll have to think on that one in particular for an upcoming post. That said, it doesn't seem that offensive, and I like how it shows the usefulness of "kin" for tying together events. We've already come a long way from "Spot is a dog", don't you think?

------------

Nothing very wild was introduced today: we had a good ol' sit down with some semantically straightforward prepositions. However, this is in anticipation of overloading them in the use of constructions I've yet to come up with: I see lots of potential for making some mark verbal inception, marking ditransitive setups (and we're already seeing 'ja' acting as a de facto 'patient' marker), and perhaps even things like evidentiality. If you have a spiffy suggestion, or wisdom about what other (con)langs do, I'm all ears!

As always, thanks for taking the time to read!

**Constructions in this Post**
PP -> <Preposition> <NP>
PP -> <Preposition> <Subclause?>
PPs exist in a "actor > location > time" default heirarchy: higher-ups are said closer to the matrix verb.

