Joe, Jane, and Spot: Sakír, Ritá, Táti
Kinds: sal(person), nis(boy), nit(girl), tatíra(dog)
Inanimate props: tímitim(stick), rakási(potato), sjiráha(sriracha sauce)
Not really nouns, but why not: tína(hapiness) lídja(sadness) kirikinís(quickness)
Nice, active verbs: sam(go) lir(see/apprehend) dawi(throw) win(eat) mal(put/place)
Finicky, less-active verbs: rak(have/possess) nisír(feel) sja(be)
Fun multivalent verbs: sjim(give) dan(make/cause) mihya(tell/say)
Killer-P's that we'll determine later: ja, wi, sir, kja, liswá

[size=150]Still Gettin' It[/size]

Dropped it pretty abruptly last time, so let's resume: we were just about to do something interesting. So far, we've two basic constructions that are keeping their nose clean - the semantics involved aren't too tricky, and I've not presented anything particularly outlandish. But wait--

**_ja Táti sja tína_**
_characterized-by/of Spot be happiness_
Spot became happy

Oh yes. Although comfortably a preposition one post ago, 'ja' is now acting as the main matrix verb in this sentence, and 'sja' has been kicked over and is acting at best as a case marker or somesuch. Together, they unite to form the sense "become". But what's going on here?

Well, perhaps we should start with our analysis so far. I've emphasized that the first particle in a sentence is the verb and (after its argument) following thereafter is a prepositional phrase (PP) acting as an argument. But I set out to do weird serial verb constructions, so why not look at it through this lens?

How would we say "Spot became/changed"? I propose we *could* do it like this:

**_ja sja Táti_**
_characterized-by/of be Spot_
Spot became

Here, 'ja sja' is (to my mind) gonna be like English phrases like "give in", "pull out", "rake in", "give up", and "take up": they form lexical items that mean something different than their constituents. Thus, the actual meaning of 'ja sja' is 'become', not 'of be'; I want to do this kind of thing for most Kjáhida verbs. In English, I could say "I gave up" or "I raked in the dough": in Kjáhida, I want to do the same thing, but sprinkle in the NPs in there. So, instead of saying "I took up space" we'd (in gloss-o-nese) say "took I up space". So perhaps a 'better' gloss to show what's going on in today's example would be like this:

**_ja Táti sja tína_**
_-came Spot be- happiness_
Spot became happy

Looking at our (only... other... example...) "Spot is a dog", let's follow this pattern and guess that if we just wanted to say "Spot exists" we'd have:

**_sja sja Táti_**
_be be Spot_
Spot is

The thing is that that would be too easy to understand to learners of the language, and we can't have that: this ain't no auxlang. Additionally, "be be" is silly to require at this point. Further, this is the word 'to be' in our language, and it is our duty to make it as oddball as we can get away with. Finally, we already said that the 'sja ... sja ...' construction was using juxtaposition! So, no, my friends, we'll just keep it like this:

**_sja Táti_**
_is Spot_
Spot is

The important thing here is that we thought of that possibility and chose to go with a different pattern because it looked prettier. I propose for now (until we want to make a construction that messes things up) we should analyze the particle/verb/preposition things as set constructions that get filled in with NPs. In this light, we still basically just have done VS(O) sentences, just that the V has been kind of crumbly. In fact, I don't think we've even done a 'proper' PP as a result of this analysis, which means we have even more design space to explore than we thought we did.

To be totally clear, I expect this analysis to change as we go forward: don't feel too comfortable with 'Oh! They're all just part of a verb'. I'm pretty sure they're gonna end up earning the 'Killer P' as we go along. However, the next post will cover those "Nice, active verbs" I mentioned but didn't use last time: they are single-wordy, but surely they'll need two arguments? No worries, we're gettin' it.

---------

Feedback, pointing-out-of-stupidity, and comments (as always) welcome.