Kjáhida - Sakir's New Language

Ahoy! It's well past the point where I should post something about my new language of the past month. I've recently moved to China again, and (as seems to be a symptom) learning another language makes me want to retreat into conlanging. I'm putting this in Quickies to incentivize regular posting, and I'll be using this topic to present an unordered creation of the grammar. The language is provisionally named 'Kjáhida'.


**Concept**

The goal is to make a language that exhibits a high degree of syntactical depth: the goal is to have a syntax that is well-detailed and presents several interesting structural features, without becoming a kitchen-sink of strategies. I don't care overly for phonology or morphological processes, so will be aiming for simplicity there: the language will be highly analytic and I'll not be investigating much phonological nuance.

An important point of interest for me is to have 'killer prepositions': I want a robust class of adposition-verb-thingies that fly around sentences acting as coverbs, relativization strategies, semanti-clitics... all sorts of stuff.


**Obligatory Phonology**

Languages need sounds, so I cobbled together a relatively simple phonology that is sufficiently simple and 'edgy' at the same time. Where I dont' explicitly mark // vs. [], I mean //.

Its main unorthodox feature is a 2-vowel system:
V = /i a/

The front vowel /i/ is prototypically unrounded and reduces in fast speech to the neighborhood _, whereas the back vowel /a/ tends to be rounded and moves towards schwa. Roundedness is determined by vowel-height as far as I am concerned for now, and I don't imagine speakers tend to care about it much, particularly for more 'central' vowel allophones.

**Consonants** are pretty tame, and my analysis splits them into 'front' and 'back' consonants.

C<sub>front</sub> = /j d s m l/
C<sub>back</sub> = /w k h N r/

**Words** in Kjáhida follow this regular expression for now:

(K<sub>j</sub> | K<sub>i</sub>i | K<sub>a</sub>a)+(dksmNlr)
where
K<sub>j</sub> = dksh(jw)
K<sub>a</sub> = C<sub>front</sub>khr
K<sub>i</sub> = C<sub>back</sub>dsm

**Stress** is determined lexically. Stressed syllables acquire a higher volume and round the vowel when its pitch is low.

**Allophony**
Allophony is only somewhat laid out at this point, and mostly is a basic set of rules about what the actual allophone of the two vowels should manifest as based on context. 

The **openness/height** of the vowel is centralized if the frontedness of the vowel matches the class of consonant: C<sub>back</sub>a shifts /a/ towards [o], and C<sub>front</sub> shifts /i/ towards _.

**Pitch** is prominent in the sound of the language, but is not featural. It has four general levels: high, mid-high, mid, and low. It is determined per-syllable, and follows directly from the phonemes involved according to the following schema:

C<sub>back</sub>i#, C<sub>front</sub>aC<sub>front</sub> --> High
C<sub>front</sub>i#, C<sub>front</sub>aC<sub>back</sub> --> Mid-High
C<sub>front</sub>iC<sub>front</sub>, C<sub>back</sub>iC<sub>front</sub>, C<sub>back</sub>aC<sub>front</sub> --> Mid
C<sub>back</sub>iC<sub>back</sub>, C<sub>back</sub>aC<sub>back</sub> --> Low

**Semivowels** reduce when they occur at the beginning of a word: jV goes to V and wV goes to ?V. 

--------------

I'm very open to suggestions about the phonology, as it is certainly not my forté (the 'pitch' thing is particularly alien ground for me). I intend to move on to grammatical considerations as soon as possible (I have several notes, but not condensed into postable format) and will likely make a post on basic sentence structure in the coming day or so.
