[size=150]Passive Aggression[/size]
Entailed by last post's determination that we'd be using passives in lieu of relativization strategies for 'arguments' of the verb of tertiary centrality, we need to actually create such passives... they don't exist yet. This will be just about the first time where we modify the semantics of a particular verb: up to this point they've comfortably had all their 'slots' filled in whenever they can lob the prepositional particles towards relevant NPs. Let's investigate ways we can change a transitive verb into a passive verb first, and then consider how to passivize intransitive and other kinds of verbs.

**_dawi Sakir lek tímitim_**
_throw Sakir from stick_
Sakir threw away the stick

Here are some approaches I brainstormed which I think are near the 'spirit' of Kjáhida:

**Gap Strategy**
Here, we kick the agent to a PP and move the 'object' into the first spot, leaving the phrasal preposition where it was to mark the change.

**_dawi tímitim lek ø (ja/kin/wi? Sakir)_**
_throw stick from (of/after/concerning Sakir)_
The stick was thrown (by Sakir)

**Passivizing particle 'hi'**
Here, we move the 'object' into the first part, put the particle 'hi' where the object moved from, and 'hi' is itself a killer-P that provides an optional home for the de-emphasized agent.

**_dawi tímitim lek hi (Sakir)_**
_throw stick from PASS (Sakir)_
The stick was thrown (by Sakir)

**Front Now-Empty Preposition**
Here, we move the 'object' into the first part, and lob the preposition that housed it right in front of the verb. The de-emphasized agent can assume a naked post directly after the promoted 'object'.

**_lek dawi tímitim (Sakir)_**
_from throw stick (Sakir)_
The stick was thrown (by Sakir)

All of these can be pretty interesting, and I'm tempted to choose more than one. However, they each have stylistic/artistic weaknesses to my nose. The Gap Strategy as I have here puts a bit of onus in determining what kind of PP the agent gets kicked to, and I'm not very impressed by that consequence. The Passivizing Particle approach is pretty darn attractive, introducing a new versatile Killer-P and being relatively low on the ambiguity scale; however, it reminds me pretty strongly of our second relativization strategy, and I'm not sure that's a selling point when we want a quirky grammar. Finally, the Fronting Preposition is very simple and elegant, but it has the wholly unattractive trait of introducing Kjáhida to an 'unheaded' NP.

So, I'm gonna make a quick, reversible judgement call: for verbs where we want to express the de-emphasized agent, we will use the Passivizing particle. For verbs where we do not wish to have the de-emphasized agent stated whatsoever, we will use the Fronting strategy. If either one winds up tying our shoelaces, we'll kick it away in favor for the one not messing us up as much.

Let's play around a bit:

**_lir Ríta ja hi Sakir_**
_see Rita of PASS Sakir_
Rita was seen by Sakir

**_ja lir Rita_**
_of see Rita_
Rita was seen

**_dawi tímitim lek hi Sakir nar Táti_**
_throw stick from PASS Sakir for Spot_
The stick was thrown to Spot by Sakir

**_lek dawi tímitim nar Táti_**
_away throw stick for Spot_
The stick was thrown to Spot

**_nísam kajis_**
_upon precipitate_
It rained

**_kajis nisam hi najis_**
_precipitate upon PASS clouds_
It rained due to clouds

**_kajis nisam najis_**
_precipatate upon the clouds_
The clouds rained down

The "intransitive" verb was probably the most difficult one there, but even that I think turned out just fine given how briefly we slapped together the construction. Now that we have passive constructions, I can think about how precisely we'll use them for the other purpose we had in mind for them: specifying genitive, oblique, and comparatand verb arguments.

-----------

Long workday today, though, so will have to address that next post. I think these are pretty respectable passives, but let me know your thoughts/alternative approaches. Thanks for reading/skimming all the glosses I had to come up with, and for your attention generally. Cheers!

**Constructions This Post**
Passive with Agent Still Stated: <verb> <promoted NP> (other args) <promoted-beyond particle> 'hi' <agent> (other PPs)
Passive with Agent Omitted: <promoted-beyond particle> <verb> <promotedNP> (other args) (other PPs)
