[size=150]Move On Up[/size]

It occurred to me, looking at the issue of elevating an oblique object in a subclause to an argument of the matrix clause, that the reason why we might be making its sentence passive is precisely to elevate that object to the 'first argument' status. And, as we've said, we happily relativize the 'first' argument of a verb with a gap strategy. However, because the 'first' argument isn't as prototypically 'agent-like', let's introduce an irregularity and use the "front + di" relativization method, instead of the gap method:

**_kaseta Ríta nisam kajis_**
_dislike Rita against rain_
Rita doesn't like the rain
**PLUS**
**_kajis dawi di lek tímitim nar tatíri min hi Sakir_**
_throw rain away stick for dog under PASS Sakir_
The rain was thrown-away-under concerning a stick for a dog by Sakir
**EQUALS**
**_kaseta Ríta nisam kajis dawi di lek tímitim nar tatíri min hi Sakir_**
_dislike Rita against rain throw REL away stick for dog under PASS Sakir _
Rita doesn't like the rain in which Sakir threw a stick for spot

WHAM: I like that much more. Let's place it in other positions in the matrix clause, just to do a once-over:

**_kaseta kajis dawi di lek tímitim nar tatíri min hi Sakir nisam Ríta_**
_dislike rain throw REL away stick for dog under PASS Sakir against Rita_
The rain within which Sakir threw a stick for the dog disliked Rita

**_sam Rita sir nanik wa kajis dawi di lek tímitim nar tatíri min hi Sakir_**
_go Rita toward home upon rain throw REL away stick for dog under PASS Sakir_
Rita went home at the same time as the rain within which Sakir threw a stick for the dog

Yeah, I'm feeling it. A lot of work here, though, for an utterance that no one hoping to be well-understood would speak out loud, but languages have to be rich enough to accomodate ineffective people effectively. Naturally, the form of the passive will be different if we leave out the actor. Here are out examples leaving out 'Sakir'.

**_kaseta Ríta nisam kajis min dawi di lek tímitim nar tatíri_**
_dislike Rita against rain under(PASS) throw REL away stick for dog _
Rita doesn't like the rain in which the dog was thrown a stick

**_kaseta kajis min dawi di lek tímitim nar tatíri nisam Ríta_**
_dislike rain under(PASS) throw REL away stick for dog against Rita_
The rain within which a dog was thrown a stick disliked Rita

**_sam Rita sir nanik wa kajis min dawi di lek tímitim nar tatíri_**
_go Rita toward home upon rain under(PASS) throw REL away stick for dog_
Rita went home at the same time as the rain within which a dog was thrown a stick

----------

Shorter post today, since I need to work on some thoughts for the CCC project: I'll be using Kjáhida for my cultural submission's language, so peek over there to see mine & other's efforts. Once I have something posted, remember to vote for me! :P

Also, I don't know about you, but I'm getting really fatigued typing out all these long glosses. I anticipate we'll take a break from clause-level syntax and visit something more basic, like noun phrases or serial verb constructions. Might skip a day tomorrow (IRL work & research to do). As always, thanks for tuning in.

**Constructions this Post**
To relativize an oblique argument of the subclause, use the passive to make it the 'first' argument, then use the "front + di" method of relativization to promote it to an argument of the matrix verb clause.