[size=150]Mass Transitive[/size]

Part of being an expatriate is to find creative ways to not eat the local food. It's not that I dislike Chinese food: far from it, I enjoy me some guōtiē. But sometimes I just want McDonald's, and they deliver over here, right to your door, and it's raining outside, and...

...I pour sriracha sauce on the fries. Bringing us to this post's doozie of an intro sentence:

**_win Sakír ja tímitim rakási wi sjiráha_**
_eat Sakir of stick potato with sriracha sauce_
Sakir eats fries with sriracha sauce

And all of a sudden we've proposed at least three different constructions for Kjáhida without even trying: the joys of early conlang development! Let's run an initial analysis, see if we like it, and determine any tweaks to be made. What have we done here...

-'tímitim rakási' is an NP with more than one noun in it, and is trying to associate the two words together to signify a different concept altogether. We need to be precise about this kind of thing, so this merits some dissection.
-'ja' is definitely indicating a Patient for this transitive verb concept: whether it is a distinct case marker that just looks like our previous 'ja' is yet to be determined.
-'wi sjiráha' could be an honest-to-goodness instrumental PP, a component of the matrix verb ('win ja wi'?), or some other particle denoting the relevance of the sriracha, perhaps an adverbial of some kind.

**Yum**
We'll go in order, starting with 'tímitim rakási'. I figured it was a bit much to have 'french fry' **and** 'sriracha sauce' be in the first 10 words I made, so figured I could get some mileage out of having a word for stick (Táti needs fun in example sentences too) and force at least a quick look at NP constructions in Kjáhida. That said, I don't think we need much going on here yet... this is like English "racecar", "gunsight", "shoelace" and so on. 

This feels a little underwhelming to me, so we may revisit this, but for now I want to make juxtaposition a non-marginal method for Kjáhida speakers to associate two things, and we have such a lovely thing going on with 'sja... sja...' that I want to echo. So, I promise some more interesting NP constructions later, but not today. Only other thing to note here is that we're considering 'tímitim' as the head of the phrase, and so the status of 'rakási' (currently) is that of a null-marked "the head is made up of/comprised of' relationship, like French 'de'/'en'.

**An Impasse**
Moving on... what's 'ja' up to? It's not really the least obvious word to use, in its 'of' gloss. I think in church they even say things like "Drink of this wine, for it is my blood", so there is some cognate friendliness going on here. So I guess the real question is if it is part of the matrix verb or a head of an adjunct phrase. If the language existed already, I'd ask to see what "I eat" translates to, then we'd see if we got 'win ja Sakír' or 'win Sakír': that's the kind of stuff linguists do, after all.

**_win ja Sakír_**
_eat of Sakir_
?Sakir eats

**OR**

**_win Sakír_**
_eat Sakir_
?Sakir eats

As a conlanger, however, this is a design choice. The choice I see here, at least while keeping to our patterns and themes, is a decision about how strongly verbs in Kjáhida expect certain semantic arguments to be present. If we go with 'win ja Sakír' in the intransitive, we're closer to a stance emphasizing phrasal verbs crumbling toward relevant NP arguments, whereas 'win Sakir' goes more the route of our verbs not caring as much about the specifics of their actions, delegating the explanation to secondary phrases (and thus emphasizing our 'killer preposition' goal).

At the moment, I'm genuinely divided on which way to go, so I'd appreciate feedback/opinions. If I had to choose a preference, I'd say I'm leaning towards 'win ja Sakír', so that it is easier to imagine straightforward Kjáhida words for English concepts like 'eating in', 'eating out', 'eating it all up', and so on: 'win ja' would mean exactly 'eat of'. Lemme get your thoughts!

**More Yum**
Finally, we get to enigmatic 'wi' introducing my favorite condiment. That said, what does 'wi' actually indicate?

In this particular sentence, it might be tempting for the eager conlanger to label it "INSTRU." or "with" in the gloss, clap their hands, and be done. But I'm not gonna give one of the shortest words in Kjáhida such a simple, angst-free existence! No, we're gonna make this particle particle behave at least as promiscuously as the English word 'to', although in a different way: I propose that 'wi' indicates a pragmatic decision by the speaker to mention something particularly relevant to the action of the matrix verb. 
[size=1]You may wonder why I'm using the word 'matrix' all the time. It is because I want to get a headstart on my distinctions early on, since I'm allowing for/anticipating some wacky embedded-clause maneuvers later on[/size]

This is because, when I began this post, I didn't just want to say "I-am-Sakir-and-I-eat-french-fries-with-sriracha-sauce". I used ellipses and everything to focus on the sriracha, it was the reason I brought up the scenario at all; talking with friends, that's the hook of the story. The only reason I didn't say 'wi sjiráha win...' was that I'm uncomfortable performing grammatical fronting so early in development. So 'wi' is some amalgam of a 'THEME' or 'TOPIC' marker. So, I'm seeing 'wi' having a place in sentences like

**_lir Sakír wi Ríta_**
_see Sakir the-lovely-and-talented Rita_
Sakir saw Rita (and we're gonna talk about Rita now)

**_sam Sakír wi Táti_**
_go Sakir with-the-going-very-relevant-to dog_
Sakir went with Spot (since why would I bring up Sakir's travels if it wasn't important to the dog?)

**_rak Sakír wi sjiráha_**
_have Sakir dat sriracha-sauce_
Sakir has sriracha on him (and that's gonna lead to something)

In fact, it's almost like it glosses to "***THE***" right now, but that's mostly my enthusiasm showing: I'll be less excited about it later on and it'll simply be a way for us to 'promote' an NP in pragmatic situations without resorting to a passive or similar construction. It also coyly leaves undetermined whether we can have NPs not be 'headed' by a particle of some form.

-----------------------

As always, thanks for taking the time out of your routine to read my post: I hope it was interesting. Feedback & criticism always warmly welcomed.

**Constructions In This Post**
_<verb> ... wi <NP>_ = "NP is very likely to be our Topic going forward, or is being emphasized"
_<nounA> <nounB>_ = compound NP where nounA is modified/specified by nounB in some fashion
_win ... ja ..._ = "eat of something"
_win ja ..._ or _win ..._ = "to eat". But which one?