[size=150]The Meek Shall Inherit[/size]
In what, in my eyes, is the culmination of several days of build-up, we shall attain the lofty goal of elevating an oblique object of a subclause to the grand status of subject of a matrix verb! I must have better things to do with my life, but such is the ailment of the conlanger, I suppose. So, what precisely are we trying to achieve in terms of a typical utterance? This:


**_Rita disliked the rain_**
**PLUS**
**_Sakir threw a stick to the dog in the rain_**
**EQUALS**
**_Rita disliked the rain in which Sakir threw the ball to the dog_**

Now, for reasons of making life difficult for ourselves, we have disallowed ourselves to use Kjáhida's relativization strategy to express this sentence: instead, we will be resorting to passive and complement constructions. I made this decision *days* ago: the choice simply required the existence of some constructs I hadn't formulated yet. So, let's see if that decision pans out by making 'the rain' become the main argument of a passive clause, and then place that passive clause into the "Rita sentence" via a complementizing strategy.

**_kaseta Ríta nísam kajis_**
_dislike Rita against rain_
Rita disliked the rain

**PLUS**

**_dawi kajis lek tímitim nar tatíri min hi Sakir_**
_threw rain against stick under PASS Sakir_
The rain was thrown-within by Sakir of a stick for a dog

**EQUALS**

**_kaseta Ríta nisam dawi kajis lek tímitim nar tatíri min hi Sakir_**
_dislike Rita against throw stick away stick for dog under PASS Sakir_
Rita disliked (that the rain was thrown-within by Sakir of a stick for a dog)

...

...

I hate it. Primarily because it doesn't attain the semantic meaning I wanted to achieve: Rita is disliking the whole scenario, not just the rain: maybe she's morally outraged at Sakir playing in the rain, and not at the rain inhibiting the dog's play. Blecch: I could just *say* it means that, but it's inconsistent and really just a giant lie. Because it's been a busy day for me, I'm feeling too tired to really fix it: I'm tempted to just be happy with the passive & complement constructions we've made up, undo our Accessibility Heirarchy decision, and let relative clauses sort this out. If I did that, we'd have

**_kaseta Ríta nísam kajis dawi Sakir lek tímitim nar tatíri min di_**
_dislike Rita against rain throw Sakir away stick for Dog under REL_
Rita disliked the rain in which Sakir threw the ball to the dog

I do marginally prefer this latter sentence's shape, but man if it doesn't feel like giving up at the first sign of adversity. What I think I'll do is read up on some stuff tomorrow about the nuts & bolts of how languages that can't relativize all the way down the accessibility heirarchy do it. Comments & feedback would be great here: I'll likely not have a 'normal' post tomorrow, doing reading instead of writing.

Thanks for your help in advance if given, and for your perusal already given!