---
layout: post
date: '2015-03-20T01:13:00.000+08:00'
title: Dodger
tagline: Trippy, Slow, Dodgebally Mess
featured: 1
---

Weave through a cacaphony of orbs!

## The Game

Play a round of the game here! 

- Click and drag to have your little green guy follow. 
- Don't touch the red orbs
- Don't leave the play area
- You score more points the more centrally located you are

<table class="table-bordered" width="50%">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center">
        <h5><small>Sewerbird</small>Dodger</h5>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <div id="display"></div>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class="text-info bg-info text-center"><i>Leave your highscore in the comments below!</i></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td id="scoreboard">
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


## Background

Feeling the impulse to continue making one-day games, I figured a dodging game might be fun: have the mouse more in-the-mix, as it were! This game comes from a long line of such time wasters, but is my own idea in terms of the specifics: you are incentivized to be near the hazardous center of the play-area by getting a higher score the closer you are to the middle of the circle.

## Development

This game took a bit longer than sewebirdMastermind or sewerbirdMissileDefense, if only for the fact that I actually found it quite fun to play, slowing my coding. That said, I probably spent 6 man-hours coding it, most of which tweaking the gameplay.

This implementation is still using the pretty blunt approach using frame-by-frame re-rendered SVG files to show the state of the game. There's a good bit I could do to improve the coding style and performance, but the whole point of these things is to hack something together quickly... to say I've 'made a game' and have people play it.

## Source
You can get the source on github [here](https://github.com/sewerbird/Dodger)

<script type='text/javascript' src="https://cdn.firebase.com/js/client/2.2.3/firebase.js"></script>
<script type='text/javascript' src="/scripts/dodger/lib/lodash.js"></script>
<script type='text/javascript' src="/scripts/dodger/client.js"></script>
<script>
    run("display","scoreboard")
</script>
