---
layout: post
title: Character Option - Gemini
---

Today is another Birth option for players: the Gemini!

The discovery of a Gemini sends chills of apprehension up the collective spines of any normal community, an ill omen of bad fortune. A Gemini is a pair of identical twins, their origin invariably unknown, who are so closely bound in thought and spirit that they are better described as one soul trapped in two bodies. Normal twins have their own thoughts, feelings, and personalities, but this is startlingly less obvious in a Gemini. A player who wishes to play a Gemini is playing a character who owns two bodies, two minds, and a unified purpose.

There is a prevalent belief that most Gemini are the result of an unknown horror possessing a pair of feral twins like marionnettes, that their sameness is an indication of outside control. This impression is not ameliorated by the fact that a common quirk is for a Gemini to speak in unison, or alternating each word spoken between bodies. Most Gemini will be shunned (and often run out of the boundaries of the village) when discovered, but some communities will shelter a Gemini (either out of sympathy, fear, or malice) and provide an upbringing.

You may choose Gemini as your Birth choice at character creation. If you choose to do so, your character gains the unique "Twinned" trait: as a player you control two bodies/individuals tied to one character sheet. As such, the bodies have the same attributes, skills, abilities, and physical characteristics as well as possessing a shared hit point pool, wounds, etc. If you wish to perform a skill, you may elect either body to perform it. Furthermore, if you take a second action but it originated from a different body than the first action did, it does not suffer the normal second-action penalty to rolls. Finally, if neither body was used for two actions, they may each assume a Stance at the end of your turn.

Being a Twinned character means you should be aware of some of the consequences of your doubled nature. The first basic principle, in terms of the mechanical game rules, is that you are considered a single unified character who is occupying two locations that need not be near each other. You can act from both locations, be targetted at both locations, see/feel/hear from both locations, and be damaged/healed/etc from both locations, and so on.
The second basic principle is that you don't generally suffer 'double jeopardy', but you do suffer 'stigmata'. If both of your bodies fall off a chasm or are encompassed in a harmful area effect, you only take the consequence once: the effect targets you as a unified character, and may choose either of your bodies to determine whether you are an eligible target. Note however that if one twin is cut, the other twin manifests the same cut, and if one twin's broken arm is set, so is the other twin's.
The final principle is that this simultenaity only applies to the twins' bodies and minds. Therefore, a Gemini only benefits from armor present on the body targetted, has to own two pairs of clothes to not be nude, has to own two pairs of sunglasses to go to the beach, can't teleport potions between theirself, can't use a weapon that is not wielded locally, and so on. Make sure to carefully denote which twin has what, and which twin is which. By default, if forgotten, the least favorable interpretation is applied.

As a Gemini, do you consider yourself to be a single person in two places? Are you instead two similar yet nonetheless distinct personalities? Perhaps you are a multiple-personality disorder made physically manifest? Gemini often have strange mannerisms: finishing sentences for each other, only one ever speaking, wearing identical clothing, always having the exact same (or opposite!) emotion... be creative! Consider whether or not you can keep secrets from your alter-self, whether you have the same dreams at night, and how you feel when someone pays more attention to your alter-self than you. Play a Gemini if you are interested in roleplaying multiple characters, like doing clever things with your shared consciousness, and unnerving the locals.
