---
layout: post
date: '2017-12-02T00:00:00+08:00'
title: Ludum Dare 40 Log
tagline: Make-A-Game... Quick!
assets: assets/LudumDare40
category: featured
---

International game contest time! This page will serve as my development log of my progress over the next 48 hours!

## Explanation

I've decided to join in for the fourtieth [Ludum Dare](https://ldjam.com), an international contest to create a game in 2-3 days. Here's my log for the Compo event: a solo attempt within 48 hours, beginning at 10am Saturday, China Time. The theme for the competition gets revealed at that point, and I'll have to start essentially from scratch: making a finish product by 10am Monday. I'll be setting a personal deadline for Sunday at midnight, since I have work on Monday morning.

I will be using the [Love2D](https://love2d.org) game engine, along with some useful game-libraries I've hand-crafted over the past several months. Otherwise, all assets, content, and logic has to be done from scratch: even my handcrafted engine stuff is only half-ready, so I'm sure that'll be a significant source of stress!

I'm hoping for the theme to be amenable to some kind of board-game idiom, since that is what I'm prepared for. However, I'm prepared to swing over to a platformer or physics-based game if the winner theme is really not amenable to such: I did just make [Rocket Boy Redux]({{site.url}}/content/blog/coding/Rocket-Boy-Redux) after all!

## Activity Log

Here is my current status, in reverse chronological order.

### Saturday, 08:30, T-1:30

Awake and showered. I'm fixing up a breakfast sandwich and enjoying some quick internet browsing before I head off to [Coderbunker](www.coderbunker.com) to begin.

### Saturday, 00:15, T-9:45

Putting together this page for the log, and quickly pushing it to Github before heading to sleep. I've beefed up my Ludum Dare profile at [their site](https://ldjam.com/events/ludum-dare/40/$52664) with a logo, and have spent the evening trying to get my little bit of basecode to have a serviceable game camera. However, it's more important to get sleep now than to stay up fiddling it, so off to bed!
