---
layout: post
title: Character Option - Professions I
---

This post introduces some Profession backgrounds available to your character after they have chosen your Birth and Upbringing background. New characters start with up to two Profession backgrounds, and may acquire new ones during the course of play (unlike Births and Upbringings). When you select these backgrounds you must specify which is the most recent one: Professions usually confer an additional benefit at character generation if they are the most recent background. Today's Professions are themed for middle-class Sakire in a well-to-do community, but feel free to add your own details.
<h2>Merchant</h2>
You own or are associated with a small business, and handle day-to-day sales and management. This is usually a market stall at a local bazaar, where you pitch your wares and handle customers and money. You can either be a sole proprietor, or have a few employees that you manage. This background is primarily for a retailer of sundries, rather than a smithy or other producer of high-end capital goods.

If this is your most recent background at character creation, you start play with a single small business located in a village center. You can start with 0-3 employees who each cost 50$ per week while you are present, and 100$ per week if are absent (they can run the store while you are gone). The shop makes 100$-300$ worth of sales per week (determined by your GM, quality/quantity of employees, and/or story events). There is 50$ in weekly taxes and fees to the local government. You must restock your inventory: most often you can reliably produce/secure your product at 50% of the standard market price.

If you have this as a background, you may gain Training in 3 of the following skills: Haggling &amp; Appraising, Keeping track of details, Interacting with Officials, Interacting with Commoners, Performing calculations, Noticing pilfering and sneakers, Making a good impression, Crafting a specific material (bone, thread, leather, etc), Baking &amp; Cooking, Gaining attention &amp; Salesmanship. You also get a free 1XP, but it must be spent improving one of these three chosen skills or getting a fourth skill from this list. Finally, you start play with 200 gold.
<h2>Scholar</h2>
You are a specialist (whether as a hobbyist or as a professional) in a subject, and serve as an advisor or author to make your money. The most common kind of topics include archaeology, history, linguistics, literature, civil policy, and philosophy. This background represents a modest yet respectable expertise which is suitable either for advising officials and professionals on courses of action and meanings or for producing written works that are able to gain an audience.

If you have this as a background, you gain Innate Mastery in a single topic from the following list: Architecture, Archaeology(Precursor), Golems, Precursor Electricity, Precursor Linguistics, Civil Policy, Sakire Literature, Sakire History, Sakire Philosophy, Civil Engineering, Botany, Marine Biology, Weather, Optics, Kinematics, Geography, Avian Biology, Military Strategy, and other topics at your GM's discretion. If this is your only Professional background at character creation, you also get 2XP to spend gaining/improving other topics in the list.

You also gain Training in 2 of the following Skills: Teaching a subject, Reading &amp; Writing, Sketching &amp; Illustration, Seeing in the dark, Focusing amidst distraction, Explaining things to other people, Avoiding attention, Entertaining at an event. Finally, you start play with 5 good reference books on your topics, writing instruments, and 50 gold.
<h2>Guardsman</h2>
You are a member of the local citizen militia, which is charged with protecting your village from golems and to serve as a policing force. Your position is as a justice of the peace, and you answer to your local Guard Captain who himself is responsible to the local Imperial Prefect. Responsibilities include patrolling the village outskirts, responding to violent crimes, preventing theft at the local marketplace, and safeguarding the office of the Prefect. Each village gets a degree of local autonomy in local affairs in return for agreeing to host and pay taxes to their assigned Prefect, and the local citizen militia is formed to enable this relationship and keep the peace.

If you have this as a background, you gain Training in 3 of the following Skills: Calming members of the public, Noticing something amiss, Identifying lies and half-truths, Subduing a violent individual without performing harm, Intimidating members of the public, Interacting with Officials, Interacting with the Military, Fighting Golems. Additionally, you are Trained to fight and defend with polearms, swords, and shields.

If this is your most recent background, you gain an affiliation with the local garrison, 25 gold, and either a polearm (of your choice) or a sword and shield. If not, you gain only the affiliation or the weaponry. If this is your only background, you are an officer and are either the captain's Lieutenant or the garrison Sergeant: as either, you have access to 5-10 guardsmen for handling tasks of official importance. If this is your most recent background, you also have access to free but basic room &amp; board at the local garrison.
<h2>Scout</h2>
You are a member of the local citizen militia, which is charged with protecting your village from golems and to serve as a policing force. You either volunteered or were drafted into an "Erikandre" (a kind of specialized semi-professional task force) serving as a scout. Your duties involve patrolling the wild beyond the village borders as a forward sentry to warn the village of impending raider and golem attacks. You are stealthy, well-versed in survival, and fulfill the roles generally associated with a wilderness ranger.

If you have this as a background, you gain Training in 3 of the following Skills: Clambering over obstacles, Quickly hiding in cover, Navigating mazeways, Surviving falls from heights, Finding a safe place to rest, Fighting small Golems, Balancing on beams, Reacting suddenly to danger, Aiming a weapon, Acrobatic Running. Additionally, you are trained to fight with rifles and bows.

You begin play with a Kakisme model rifle with 12 shots. If this is your only background, you gain 2XP to spend on skills from this background's skill list. If this is your most recent background, you also have access to free but basic room &amp; board at the local garrison.
<h2>Soldier</h2>
You are a member of the Imperial Ceke Army, the infantry of the Emperor. Garrisons are located in larger communities across Jezevel, and the Army responds to large golem attacks, natural disasters, and rebellions. You either volunteered or were conscripted, and (unless specified otherwise by the GM) are a member of a regiment currently enjoying vacation time at your home village. As such you are free to engage in civilian activity until the regiment is activated, although you must report to your commander every three days. You have been trained in combat tactics, marching, and campaigning: you are considered to have finished at least one year of service.

If you have this as a background, you gain Training in 3 of the following Skills: Finding a safe spot to rest, Intimidating civilians, Noticing an ambush, Navigating the city, Interacting with Officials, Interacting with the Military, Reacting to sudden danger, Maintaining combat awareness, Clambering over obstacles, Acrobatic running, Sneaking around. Additionally, you are trained to fight with rifles and polearms.

You begin play with a Kare model partizan, a military affiliation, and a set of Plumata model armor. If this is your only background, you gain 2XP to spend on skills from this background's skill list. If this is your most recent background, you also have access to free but basic room &amp; board at the local garrison.
<h2>Artisan</h2>
You are a craftsman, specializing in a certain kind of craft. You perform your trade in a workshop, and sell your wares to local merchants for sale. The business is pretty flexible, since you choose your own hours, so you free to do whatever you want as long as your bills are paid.

If you have this as a background, choose one of the following materials to gain Mastery in: Bone, Leather &amp; Furs, Scrap Metal, Stone, Wood, Iron/Steel, Gold/Silver, Bronze/Copper. Then, choose one of the following craft types to gain a Masterstroke in: sundries, containers/silverware, weapons, armor, jewelry, masonry, carpentry.

You gain Training in 3 of the following Skills: Haggling with raw material dealers, Appraising &amp; Identifying items of your chosen craft, Interacting with Merchants, Fighting with a hammer, Reacting quickly to an environmental hazard, Holding on tightly, Repairing an item, Breaking/Picking a lock, Making friends.

You may begin play with 100 gold, a small workshop near the village center, an apprentice (if you wish), and a Supplier contact who you can go to for your materials, or you can liquidate and instead start play with 200 gold.
<h2>Performer</h2>
You are a skilled entertainer who works hard to maintain and hone a particular performance talent. Choose to be an instrumentalist, singer, dancer, storyteller, or actor: you gain Innate Mastery whenever performing using that talent. You also gain Training in assembling and wearing costumes for looking your best.

You gain Training in 3 of the following Skills: Interacting with Nobles, Making friends, Being the life of a party or gathering, Seducing a member of the opposite sex, Telling a lie, Reading a crowd, Fighting drunks, Attracting attention to oneself, Staying focused amidst distraction, Acrobatics, Climbing, Balancing.

You may begin play with 50 gold, a personal promotion agent (if you wish), an above-average wardrobe, an instrument of value less than 50 gold, and a small apartment. If this is your only background, you gain 2 additional skills from the skill list, a minor noble patron, and enjoy wider fame.
<h2>Acolyte</h2>
You are an acolyte of the Jeke, the official Imperial Cult. Your responsibilities include assisting the priestesses at the weekly rites, selling horoscopes, collecting tithes, and performing charity work. A normal village usually supports two priestesses and three to ten acolytes, who all receive living stipends from the Imperial Seat. The church reveres the Sky Bird, the God Below, and the animistic spirits of the Precursors. (More details about the religion will be published in a later update!)

You gain Training in 3 of the following Skills: Astrology, Theology, History, Interacting with the Devout, Reading &amp; Writing, Interacting with Officials, Selling fortunes &amp; pardons, Fighting with a staff, Administering medical care, Calming a crowd. You also gain Training in Performing rituals, Comforting the distressed, and Guilt-tripping adherents.

You begin play with 25 gold, 50 gold weekly salary, vestments, a Jeke affiliation, and a Priestess contact. If this is your only background, you are considered Chief Acolyte, gaining administrative duties for the local temple and a 25 gold salary raise. If you are no longer an active acolyte, you lose the salary and affiliation.
